 I'm going to show you how to make a simple program in DUDRAW.
 First of all, DUDRAW is a graphics package to use with Python.
 We started with a standard draw, a package written at Princeton, and we've modified it and made it our own, and so this is a DU program.
 And it's for the use in our first-year programming classes.
 To install it, this is something you already should have done by now, but just a reminder that you just need to do this one time, type this command in the terminal window.
 If you've already done that, no worries.
 Once it's installed, then to use DUDRAW and any of your Python programs, just include this line at the very beginning of the program, import DUDRAW.
 Now, to use DUDRAW, the first thing you need to do is you program needs to contain a command, DUDRAW.set canvassize, and this sets the size of the window that gets opened.
 And you're going to pass two parameters. I'll tell you what that means in a sec.
 And that's telling Python and DUDRAW what the width and height of your window should be in pixels.
 So for example, if your command looked like DUDRAW.set canvassize 400-300-300, that means your window will be 400 pixels wide and 300 pixels tall.
 Now, when you create a window, DUDRAW automatically uses a scale for the horizontal axis that goes from zero to one, and similarly a scale in the Y axis, the vertical axis that goes from zero to one.
 And you will be able to change that later. We'll talk about how to do that in a week or so.
 So just to show you what I mean here, say you've opened a 500 by 500 pixel DUDRAW window.
 The lower boundary is the X axis.
 And the scale on that axis, excuse me, so the left boundary then is the Y axis, and the scales on these axis go from zero to one.
 So for an X axis zero to one and for the Y axis zero to one.
 So just to practice if you look at this dot in the lower left hand corner, that's the origin of the coordinate system, just like in algebra.
 And the coordinates of this point are X to zero, Y is zero.
 The upper right hand corner is the point one one. The center point is zero point five zero point five.
 You look at this point right here, X is one quarter of the way across the window, and Y is three quarters of the way up.
 So the coordinates are zero point two five zero point seven five.
 And if you like, you can think of these as percentages 25 percent 75 percent that makes it easier for some students to identify where the points are.
 Finally, this point in the lower right hand corner has coordinates of X is one Y is zero.
 And now we're going to talk about how to make shapes using DUDRAW.
 There are a large number of graphics primitives. These are commands for drawing shapes that you're familiar with like lines circles and rectangets.
 And you can look at the DUDRAW documentation.
 There will be links in this assignment that show you where to go to look.
 Usually we can't memorize all the commands and how to use them. So we look up documentation to see when we want to draw what we want to draw.
 Now your program is a sequence of these commands and Python draws them in the order that you issue the commands.
 Finally, when you're done creating the the image that you want to create, you use a show command, do you draw dot show and the parameter the number in these parentheses tells do you draw how many milliseconds you want the window to show for so 10,000 milliseconds is 10 seconds.
 So let's now do an example. We are going to create a 400 by 400 pixel window and we're going to draw this picture in it.
 Before we do that, let's think about the coordinate system because we're going to need to know the X and Y values of this point right here.
 And it looks to me like it's a third of the way across in X and Y is zero. So there are the coordinates.
 If I just point is zero point three three or think of it as 33% if you like and then the y coordinate is zero. So I'll go to the next point pause the video if you want to practice to make sure they understand.
 You should have gotten an X value of one and a y value of two thirds and that's about one zero point six seven. Keep going for all these endpoints pause if you want to practice.
 Two thirds one, which is 0.671 remember the 0.67 is the x coordinate and the one is the y coordinate and then finally this last point.
 So now that we have the image completely laid out and we know what the values of all the points are. I'm now going to switch to the S code and we'll write the program that's going to create this image.
 So I'm in visual studio code now VS code and I'm going to create the program to draw the picture that we just looked at and I have a screenshot of it right here so we can refer back to it when we want to see where the points are.
 So the first thing I do is create a file I'll call this pre class to draw x dot py.
 And the first thing I need to do with any python program that uses do draw is an import so import do you draw is my first line.
 Then I need to do a do draw dot set hand the size this opens up a window of the size that I ask for which I'm going to do 500 by 500 pixels.
 Now what I want to do is make the background if you look at this picture here the background looks like gray.
 So there is a command and do you draw called clear and that means clear the canvas and if you want you could pass a parameter that says the color and there's a color that's defined as do draw dot light gray that's going to set up the background color.
 Now what I need is two lines so the first line that I'm going to draw is going to be this one that I'm indicating right here.
 And the do draw dot line command asks for two points the x and y value of the first point which we see is one third zero and the x and y coordinates of the end point which we see is two thirds one.
 So one third zero.
 Two thirds one that's the first line.
 And now I need the second line so I'm going to go back here and see the second line which has x is zero y is a third is the first point and one two thirds is the second point.
 So I'll make those two points there's the left and point.
 And then the right and point.
 And that's it for the drawing now I just need to do my show command.
 So my show command actually makes the window appear.
 And it's in milliseconds so I'll make the window appear for 10 seconds.
 And this looks right to me so let me run this program and there we have our picture.
 Now one thing that we haven't done that we should have is put some comments here so I'll put some comments in Python.
 Hashtag or number sign is the beginning of a comment and you can see that the color being used in the VS code is showing that it's a comment it's going to use green as the color.
 So I'll just say open a 500 by 500 pixel window that's a comment for this first line.
 Draw a light gray background.
 And then draw two lines crossing.
 And then display for 10 seconds.
 Now these comments that I've put in don't change the running of the program at all the computer ignores them when it reads you program and runs you program any line that starts with that number sign gets ignored.
 Just for the humans reading the program to make sense of the code that's been written there.
 (MUSIC PLAYING)
