 I'm going to show you a way to combine our scalable positional drawings with animation. So I'm going to open up a couple files here. The first one is a completion of program that I showed you a couple of classes ago. It's a house, but it's a house where I can put the position anywhere and the size I can determine by passing parameters. I showed you how to do this in a previous video. What I'm looking at right now is the completed version of that. It's similar to a project that you are doing with your own drawings. Here's the function that I've written that will create the house in a particular position and with a particular size. Here's the main program where I just set up the canvas and then I draw houses at several positions with several sizes. I'll run this just to show you that this works. I've completed my position of both scalable drawings. Now that I have that function, I'm going to go to my animation, the simplest animation, and I'm going to modify it slightly to show that I can animate a house now instead of just a circle. This is the code from the previous video. If I run this, you'll see it's a circle moving across the screen. What I'm going to do is I'm going to copy and paste this scalable positionable house and I'm going to use it in this animation. Everything's going to be the same in my program. I've got an X center, Y center, but instead of calling it X center, I'm going to start that as X position and Y position. That's the position that I'm going to put the house. I have my animation loop, a repeated loop that clears the background, redraws the frame, which is a circle. I'm about to change that. Display and then move the position of the house. All I'm going to do to change this program is right here, instead of duDraw.filledCircle, I'm going to call my drawHouse method with the X position, Y position, and size. I'm going to make the size 0.2 by 0.2. When I run this program, instead of having a circle that's moving across the canvas, I'm going to have a house. I had to do very little to create this animation. It feels almost like magic, but the power was combining pieces of code that I'd already written, including this positionable, scalable version of a house.