 I'm going to demo for you the installation of the software that you need this quarter on a Windows machine. We're asking you to do this before the first class so that when we start class, you'll be fully ready to dive right in. I'm showing you here the instructions for doing the download, and I'm just going to be following these instructions. This first part here is just explaining to you what the software is, what its purpose is. The first piece of software we need is Python. Python is a programming language, and it's the programming language that you're going to be learning to program in this quarter. The software that we're downloading allows you to actually run the programs that you write. I'm going to scroll down here to the download for Python, click on this link, and click on download. It'll automatically detect which operating system you're using. You can see that what's being downloaded here is a .exe file, and this is the installer for Python. I'm going to click on that, and it'll open it. Before you click install now, please click the add Python 3.10 to your path, and then click install now. Okay, so that setup worked, and you can see that this particular part of the downloading and installing was pretty easy. I'm going to hit close here, and we're done with that piece. The second piece of software we need, which is described here, please read this text, is Visual Studio Code, which we will refer to as VS Code. It's not the same thing as Visual Studio, and what it is is an IDE. IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment, and it allows you to edit your code within the program with additional assistance with your program understanding that you're writing a Python program. The other thing that you can do within that code is debugging and running of your program, so all of that occurs within one program, and we're downloading that code right now. I'm scrolling down to the part that explains that installation, and you're going to click on that link, and here's the download, and it says look for the one that says stable build. If you click the download button up here, that will also work. Just make sure then that you click on the Windows download, and now you can see that the download's happening with another .exe file that is the installation program for VS Code. The download's done, and I'm going to click on that to open up that install program. When you open it up, you get a few windows here to click. Here's the license agreement, so please accept that. The default location to install the code is perfectly acceptable, so hit next. The start menu folder name, that's also fine. On the next window, though, I'd like you to click on create a desktop icon. That will create an icon on your desktop that allows you to open Visual Studio code from your desktop, and it's just a little bit more convenient. So now the install is happening, and that's done. So now we've installed Visual Studio code, and when I just clicked finish, it actually opens the program for me, but notice that there is now this new icon on your desktop. So it might look a little different for you because I've already downloaded and installed and then uninstalled Visual Studio code, so I think that the start window might look a little different. If you're seeing the Explorer, that's fine. If it looks like mine and you're not seeing it, if you click this tab to the left here that says Explorer, you open it, it opens a mini version of a browser right here in VS Code that will allow you to traverse your file system to look for the programs that you're in the middle of writing. So we haven't hit open folder yet, and we need a folder, so I'm going to create one here, right on the desktop, and this is where I'm going to put everything for the whole quarter. You can name it what you like, and you don't have to put it on the desktop, you can put it in your documents folder or wherever makes sense for you, but please create this folder now and that will be the one you'll use for the whole quarter. So now when I say open folder, I'm going to browse to that folder that I just created, and that's what's getting opened. So now I have a folder open in this browser that's built into VS Code, and I'm going to create a new file. I want to make sure that everything's working, so I'm going to create a Python program, my first one, and there are a couple of ways to create files. One is you can do file, new text file, edit it right here, and then when you save it, that's when you'll give it the name. Another way is to click this button right here, that's the new file, and that's how I'm going to do it. And what we're going to do is create our first Python program, and it's traditional in computer science that your first program in a new language does nothing but say hello world, output hello world. So I'm going to call this program hello world dot py, and the dot py is important. Any file that ends with dot py means that it's a Python file, a Python program. So when I do that, on your version, I think it's going to look a little different. I think you'll have a little window that pops up that asks if you want to install the recommended extensions for Python, and you can go ahead and do that if that window popped up for you. Just hit yes for that install. If for you, like me, that option wasn't given, then we're going to manually install the extensions, and we do that with this menu item, this little tab on the left that says extensions. So click on that. And what we're going to do is search for Python. And it's going to give you this option. And this is the one that you want. Mine's already installed, but you should have an install button on the lower right here. And you can click on that and install that extension. Okay, now I'm going to close this extensions tab. Now I should be able to write and run a Python program. So I'm going to go back to my directions. Because I, in this file, in this page, have a program for you to copy paste. So here it is. So just copy this program. This is a very simple Python program that does nothing but output to the terminal, a couple of sentences. So I'm going to copy that, make control C, and then control B to paste. And you'll notice that the colors here, yellow and orange, show that the VS code is actually interpreting our program and making meaning of it. It's called parsing. It's parsing the program for us. So now we can run it and make sure that it's going to work. So this little triangle here, run Python file, let's click on that. And it runs the program. And we'll go over this program in class so that you understand how it works. But what gets output here is a lot of stuff. And this first bit here is just setup that's telling you it's starting to run the program. The actual output of the program that goes to this terminal window is right here. So there's the output of our program. So if you've gotten to this point and this is the output that you've seen, then your software is completely set up and you are ready to go for our first class meeting.