 There's just a couple of steps left. The first one is to put in another extension called LiveShare. This is going to allow us to collaborate together in class. Go to VS Code that you've installed and we're going to Extensions. Right here, remember this is the tab for Extensions, and we want to install LiveShare. There's a couple of versions and we want the real-time collaborative development. I'm going to hit Install here. When it's done installing, we should see a new glyph. We do in fact, because right here is the LiveShare link, and we'll use this in class. Then we need to install one last piece of software, which is DUDraw. DUDraw is a software package written here at DU, based on the original standard draw package written at Princeton. It's just a simple package for graphics. We're going to do that first. Let's go back to this tab up here as Explorer. What we're going to do is install it. The installation is a little different than what we just did. We're going to download and install it using pip3. In the terminal, which is at this bottom window in the VS Code program, so say pip3 install DUDraw. Now it's going to download it. What my program says is a little different than yours, because I've already downloaded it. Yours should say that it is now downloaded DUDraw. That's it. We just now have to test it. I'm going to create a new file. Remember this icon right here creates a new file. I'm going to call it testdudraw.py. Our Python programs always are going to have the extension .py. Here's the program. I gave you this very simple DUDraw program in the installation instructions. Copy that and paste it into your program. By the way, if you look at the tab here that is indicating that this is the testdudraw.py file that we're editing, there's a little filled in circle that you can see. What that's saying is it hasn't been saved since we edited it. You can save it manually by hitting Ctrl-S on Windows or Command-S on a Mac, and that saves it. Now the most updated version has been saved. If you don't do that, when you hit the run button, it's going to save it anyway. When we run this, it's going to open a window, a graphics window, and there'll just be a black circle in the middle of it. That's going to show for 10 seconds. That window opened on my other monitor. That's the window that should open for you. After 10 seconds, it's going to disappear. That means that this little tiny test program that we've written works. In our second class this week, we'll be learning more about DUDraw and different graphics commands so that you can draw pictures using a Python program. That's it for the installation. We're all set to go. If everything worked for you, then you are all set to go for the first class.