 I'm going to demo for you downloading the software that you'll need for this class. We're doing this as our first pre-class assignment so that on the first day of class we can just hit the ground running and get started right away. I've opened up the Canvas page with the instructions for this download. The beginning of this Canvas page just explains to you what the software that you need is. Python is a programming language and a language that we will be using this quarter. So downloading the software gives you the ability to run or execute programs that you have written in Python. Let's start with that. So if you go down here where it says Python installation and setup and you click this link it's going to open the Python download page. And you can just click on download Python right now they're on 3.10.6 although that might get updated. It'll download the correct software depending on whether you have Windows or Mac. So I'm going to click that and you can see that it's downloading here. I can now open this installer program by double clicking on it. So you can do that just double click here or if you prefer you can hit open here or show in Finder. I just want to show you how this works. So here in my downloads folder is the installer program and I can double click on it here. I have two monitors here so it opened the window on the wrong monitor. So this is what you should see. And the install is pretty straightforward. You can read this information if you want but just hit continue. And here as well hit continue. This is the licensing agreement. So if you hit continue here it'll ask you to accept the license. And then finally you can click install. You might have to put in your password. It's moving files to the destination locations. So now it is, I guess it's still working here. Good. So that's the installation of Python. Now it's asking if you want to move the installer the trash and you can do that because the program that got downloaded was actually just an installer program not an application. So you're welcome to move that to the trash. Now when you run this, I have a second monitor here so you can't see that it has actually opened up another window and this should happen for you as well. This is a finder window and it's opened it in Python 3.10 in the place that it downloaded the software. And if this window doesn't open for you, you can find it by going to your applications folder. And by the way, if you can't see it in your favorites here, you can just go to your Macintosh hard drive and it'll be in here as well. So if you go to applications and then find Python 3.10, this was the window that got opened automatically. I just wanted to show you what to do if yours didn't. So click here on this update shell profile dot command. You need to run this. So double click right here and process completed. It just did some updating so that we can run the Python program. Okay, so I'm going to close that and close this. So that's it for downloading Python. Now the second thing that we need to download is VS Code. And this description here, please read it, explains what Visual Studio Code or VS Code. It's not the same as Visual Studio. It's a program that's it's basically an IDE, which stands for Integrated Development Environment, and it allows us to both edit our Python programs with some added support more than another editor would give us, and then also run them and debug them all within the same program. So it's the IDE we're choosing to use for this course. So scroll down here. Here's Visual Studio, the website for downloading. And it's giving you this download here. You want to look for the one that says stable build. So I'm going to click on that. And it's downloading right here. And it says it's going to take half a minute. So I'm going to pause and come back when that downloads done. Okay, so my downloads complete, and I have some choices here. I can just double click right here. And that will unzip. You can see it's a .zip file and that will uncompress. You're welcome to do that. But I just want to show you some other options that you can do just as we did before a show in Finder. And you can double click here. So it's uncompressing. And that's it. Now we don't want to delete the app, although you can delete the zip file if you want to. So this is the Visual Studio Code or VS Code application. But it's in my download folder. And I don't want it in my download folder. I want it in my applications folder. So the easiest way to do it is to click and try that again. Click and drag it to applications. Can't drag it. Okay, it's not letting me do this. I don't know why. So let me show you another way. You can double click. Let's do it this way. Let's right click or in for most of you on Mac, that means to two finger click and do an open a new tab. Showing you different ways you can do your Finder. So now I have two Finder windows. And I can just drag this application into my applications folder. But there's one more thing that you can do that's going to make your life a lot easier, which is you can go find that VS Code or Visual Studio Code app and click it and drag it into your dock. And that way it's going to be really easily accessible. And it's saying, am I sure I want to open it? Actually, I didn't want to open it. I just wanted to drag it. So having trouble with my trackpad here today. OK, so now I have that in my dock. So now I want to open it and run it. But before I do that, I want to stay really organized this quarter. So what I'm going to do is create a new folder and you can put it on your desktop. And if you prefer, you can create your new folder in your documents folder, wherever you want to put it. And I'm going to call it comp 1351 or you can call it Intro to Programming. Put a date in there. But we're going to really keep organized. So this is the folder where I'm going to put everything this quarter. So now what I'm going to do is open up Visual Studio Code. Yes, I do want to open it. And you can see what happens here is that I have a get started screen. And so if you want to, you can do some setup here. But let's right now just postpone it till later. Now it could be that when you open it, you see an explorer, which is a version of a browser that's built right into VS code. If you don't see it right here as this tab is the symbol for Explorer. So if you click on that, you'll see your Explorer tab and there's no folder been open yet. So I'm going to hit open folder here. And on my desktop is that folder where I want to put all of my work. Now right here comes a window that says, do you trust the authors of files in this folder, this folder that we've just created? And these files are written by us. So we do trust ourselves. So I'm going to hit yes to that. So now I'm running VS code and I'm actually going to create my first Python program. And the way that I do that is I'm going to create a new file. And there's a couple ways. One way is to click right here and that'll create a new file for me. Or I can go to the menu, file, new text file, and then save it with the name that I want. So either of those methods work. Okay, so let me try right here. I'll create a file and I'm going to call it hello dot py. The extension dot py, py stands for Python, is our way of telling VS code that we're writing a Python program. When I hit enter here, for you, a window might come up that says download extensions. I've already downloaded and installed and uninstalled to prepare for this video. So it didn't show up for me. If you do get the extension window there and it says use the recommended extensions for Python, please hit yes. If you don't, like me, if it doesn't show up for some reason, right here on the left is a tab for extensions. So I'm going to click that. And well, it came up popular as Python and that's exactly the one that we want. If we search for it, it also comes up. So I'm going to hit install here. Okay, so it's in the process of installing. Okay, the installation is completed. So I'm done with extensions now and I'm going to go back here to my Explorer or my browser. And here's my program now. And this is going to be my first Python program. So if you go back to the instructions for this install, it says here's some code. And this is going to be our first Python program. So you can copy that and paste it in this editor window. I'm going to close my get started window. So here's my program here and then my browser on the left. And now we're ready to run this first program. So we'll go over this during class, of course, but all this program does is output to the terminal these two lines. So the triangle right here that I'm indicating means run. So if I click that, I have run the program. Now there's a bunch of stuff here that's all just set up for Python. And the very last line with the blue dot next to it is the line that is actually running my program. And this is the output for the program. So my first Python program is working. In the next video, there's just a couple more downloads that we need to do. And I'll show you how to do that in the next video.