 I'm going to show you a little bit more about DUDraw and how to make images with shapes and colors. Here's the image that we're going to write a Python program using DUDraw to create. Recall that in DUDraw, the default is that the scale, regardless of the size of the canvas, the scale is 0 to 1 in the X direction and 0 to 1 in the Y direction. So what I've done is I've marked on this picture all of the coordinates, and it's recommended that you do this using graph paper. Notice that this red rectangle that's representing the house has a center point of 0.5, 0.2, and that's going to be important. And also important are the half width, the distance from the left edge to the center of the rectangle, and the half height, the distance from the bottom edge to the center of the rectangle. So there's some other numbers on here as well for drawing the roof and the moon, and we'll get to that in a moment. So let's start writing this program. I'm going to create a file called houseAndMoon.py, p-y for Python file. And since I'm using DUDraw, the first thing I need to do is an import statement that imports the DUDraw package. I'm going to start by drawing the background, which is a dark blue, to represent the sky. So first I set the canvas size, and I'm going to make a 400 pixel by 400 pixel window. And then I'm going to use the DUDraw clear command. This command clears everything on the canvas with whatever color you pass as the parameter. The parameter is the information that goes inside the parentheses when you're calling a command, and you can think of it as input to the command. We're telling the clear command to please use the color dark blue. I'm also going to comment this segment of code to just explain in words what's happening. I'm just setting up the canvas with a dark blue background. Recall that in Python, a line with a hash tag or a hash mark is a comment, and anything from that point on, and it's drawn in green to remind you in VS Code, it's all going to be ignored when the program is run. It's just there for us as programmers to communicate with each other and to remind ourselves what we're doing. So now I have the background, and the next thing that I'm going to do is draw the red rectangle that represents a house. The first thing, of course, is to set the pen color to whatever color I want, which in this case is duDraw.red. Now I need to draw a rectangle, and in duDraw the command is to get not just the outline, but the full rectangle is filled rectangle. The filled rectangle command takes four parameters, four numbers that I need to pass that command so that it knows where I want to put the rectangle. The four numbers give first the x and y values for the center of the rectangle. This was at 0.5, 0.2. 0.5 because it's 50% of the way across the canvas, and 0.2 because it's 20% of the way up. So 0.5, 0.2 are the first two values. And then the next two values are the half width and half height of the rectangle. So I'll put those values in as well. Now I really want to test this to make sure that I haven't made any mistakes yet, so I'm going to add at the end of my program the command that shows the window. And I'll just do it for five seconds this time to see it just for a moment. And now I'm going to run this program and see what happens. And sure enough, this is working. So I haven't made any mistakes yet. I'm getting the red rectangle where I want. And notice that after five seconds, the window did close. I'm ready now to do the roof. So green roof. I set the pen color to D to draw. I'm going to use dark green for the roof. And now I need to draw, if you look at it closely, it's a quadrilateral. And maybe I don't remember the command for drawing a quadrilateral. So just to point out, there's a link to this documentation in this assignment. And so I'm just going to kind of search through here and ah, there it is right there already, filled quadrilateral. And it's giving me the information in this documentation that I need the corners, X0, X1, Y1, X2, Y2, X3, Y3. So eight numbers I need to pass to give to this command. And by the way, these are clickable. So if you click on it, it takes you further down in the file and you can see all the details of the documentation for that command. So now that I know what to use, I'll do filled quadrilateral. And I'm going to give the four points, the values for the four points, which is the eight numbers. So 0, 0.4, 0.1, 0.6, 0.9, 0.6, 1, 0.4. Those are the values that are the parameters, the values that I'm passing or giving to the command. So back in VS code, I'll just paste those numbers in. I think I want to test it again. So I'm going to run it again and see if that quadrilateral drew where I want it to go. And it's complaining. You can see there's an error here, attribute error. Module duDraw has no attribute dark. And it's because I got distracted up here when I was typing dark green. It tells me the line number where I blew it, line 10. So I'll go up here and fix that to say dark green. And let me run it again and good, now it works. So the next thing I'm going to do is draw this moon. You've probably guessed by now that. The first thing I'm going to do is set the pen color to white. Now I'll be careful this time and make sure I type that correctly. And then I'm going to use a command that will draw a filled circle. And if I case I don't know what that is, I can go into the documentation and search for circle. And there's a circle that will give me just the outline. Here's the filled circle. And I can probably get enough information from right here that I need an X and a Y and a radius. I don't know what order yet. So I'll click on this command name and documentation. And it says X, Y, R for the X, Y position of the center and R for the radius. So going back to my picture, the center is at 0.8, 0.8. The radius is 0.05. So you could think of this as 80%, 80% across the canvas. And then the radius is 5% of the canvas. Okay, so let me run that again. And there's my picture. And I'm going to stop at this point and let you if you if you want to practice to see if you can get that yellow door into just the right place. But in order to complete this program, I do need to put some more documentation in. So at the beginning of the program, we're going to be doing this every program this quarter, document it like this. There's multiple ways to do it. But what we're going to do is use a docstring. Type three double quotes and VS Code automatically fills in the closed triple quote. And between those is where you put your documentation. The beginning of that should be just a couple lines that explain the purpose of the program. So I've described it as a demonstration of some graphic commands, including color, draw a house with the moon in the sky. The other thing that we're going to be putting in every one of our programs is the following items. Filename, author, date, course, assignment, collaborators and Internet source. So just fill these in the name of the file that I put this program is house and moon.py. My name is Fontone Liu. The date is August 22. 22. The course comp 1351 assignment. Three class assignment two collaborators. I worked with all the 1351 instructors on this. And Internet source is none because I did not use code from anywhere online. So that's it for our first program that draws an image using some shape commands from Do You Draw graphics primitives and also some color.