 We've already seen with this house in a one by one square that we can either shift the position by adding to the x and y coordinates, or we can scale it by multiplying the x and y coordinates and the width and size by the appropriate scaling factors. Now what we want to practice is doing both of those things, shifting and scaling. So I'm going to show you how to do that with this house. And the example I'm going to do is to combine shifting and scaling by stretching horizontally by a factor of four and vertically by a factor of two, and then shifting it right two units and up three units. So I'm just combining the transformations that we did in the previous two videos. This comment, of course, will have to be fixed later because it's not going to fill that square one by one square anymore. So the way that most people find this easy is to do is to first do the scaling. So just as before, I'm going to take all the x coordinates, multiply them by four, and I'll take all the y coordinates and multiply them by two. I also, of course, have to do that by the sizes because those are getting scaled as well. For the triangle, all of these values are positions. So I need to scale the x positions by two and the y positions by four. I mean in the y positions by two. And for the rectangle, I scale the x positions, the y position, as well as the x size and the y size. Let me just double check that this worked. Yep, there's my house properly scaled. Now, in addition to the scaling, I want to do a shift. So after I've done the scaling, I've got the image of the right size. At this point, I'll add the shift. So my shift was going to shift two in the x direction and three up. I do not scale. I do not shift the sizes. The sizes are already of the appropriate size because I've completed the scaling. So the shifting I add, but only to anything that's a position. In a triangle, all of the parameters are positions, either x or y. So I'll add two to all the x positions and three to all the y positions. For this last rectangle, I'll add two to the x position and three to the y position. However, I'm not going to change these last two parameters with a shift because those are sizes and they get scaled, but not shifted. So there you see my house that's been scaled to the right size and then shifted. So the lower left hand corner is now at the position two, three. The image falls off the edge of the canvas. That's fine. It just gets clipped. There's no problem with that. Now you might be looking at this and thinking, shouldn't we use parameters so that we're not building the size of the scaling and the size of the shift right into the function itself? And absolutely, we should be doing that. And we will practice that during class.