 I'm going to show you a way to combine our scalable positional drawings with animation.
 So I'm going to open up a couple files here.
 The first one is a completion of program that I showed you a couple of classes ago.
 And it's a house, but it's a house where I can put the position anywhere and the size
 I can determine by passing parameters.
 So I showed you how to do this in a previous video.
 And what I'm looking at right now is the completed version of that.
 And it's similar to a project that you are doing with your own drawings.
 So here's the function that I've written that will create the house in a particular position
 and with a particular size.
 And here's the main program where I just set up the canvas and then I draw houses at several
 positions with several sizes.
 I'll run this just to show you that this works.
 So I've completed my positional, both scalable drawing.
 And now that I have that function, what I'm going to do is go to my animation, the simplest
 animation.
 And I'm going to modify it slightly to show that I can animate a house now instead of
 just a circle.
 So this is the code from the previous video.
 And if I run this, you'll see it's a circle moving across the screen.
 What I'm going to do is I'm going to copy and paste this scalable positionable house
 and I'm going to use it in this animation.
 So everything's going to be the same in my program.
 I've got a X center, Y center, but instead of calling it X center, I'm going to start
 that as X position and Y position.
 And that's the position that I'm going to put the house.
 I have my animation loop, repeated loop that clears the background, redraws the frame,
 which is a circle.
 I'm about to change that.
 Display and then move the position of the house.
 So all I'm going to do to change this program is right here, instead of do you draw that
 filled circle, I'm going to call my draw house method with the X position, Y position and
 size.
 And I'm going to make the size, I'll make it 0.2 by 0.2.
 When I run this program, instead of having a circle that's moving across the canvas,
 I'm going to have a house.
 I had to do very little to create this animation.
 It feels almost like magic, but the power was combining pieces of code that I'd already
 written, including this positionable, scalable version of a house.
